So, let me show you one more demo,
which I think is super cool.
Okay, so, here is the todo app.
And again, let's go to Network tab.
So watch the Network tab in here.
Let's add a new item.
Notice JavaScript showed up.
I hit enter, more JavaScript shows up.
Let me check this,
maybe I'm gonna delete this one here and
I noticed as I as I am interacting
with the code more and
more JavaScript is showing up, and let's
just show active ones over here, right?
And so, this is what I mean
by progressivity, right?
As you interact more code shows up, so
you can have as big of
a complication as you want.
It's not like the user can interact
with everything all at once.
There are choices that the user can
make and so the way to think about it is
like you are streaming the application
rather than upfront downloading.
Imagine watching a movie that would
require you to download the movie before
you can watch it,
it would be a pretty bad experience.
That's the world we're in, right,
you download all the code
then we get to run it.
So, now come to the world of streaming
where like as you are interacting or
watching the movie,
more and more code shows up.
Now for the application and it's a little
not ideal thing because the paths are,
it's more of a tree structure
rather than a linear stream.
But it's the same exact idea, which is,
you don't need to have all the code
present before you can
interact with the app.
And by doing that we significantly
lower the barrier of entry and
we makes it basically any application
of any size will have a good
startup performance because it's
not about how big the app is it's
about what you actually need to get going,
right?
And the answer over there should be pretty
close to zero and about every case.
Now, yes.
>> If you see other frameworks
like React or Angular and
all they are very good
ecosystem of components.
Then they come too Qwik, I mean,
if I need singlet, I need calendar,
I need something tab.
How the components leverage, do we need
to develop everything from scratch?
>> Yes, so that's a good question,
what about components?
So the short answer is,
Qwik is new, and so
as a result, we will have a much
smaller community, all right?
People are already building
these components out there, but
we can actually run React
components inside of Qwik.
So, react as a huge ecosystem right now
these components won't magically get all
the properties of Qwik, right, but you can
turn them relatively easily into islands.
So, you can think of it as
It's kind of like Astro,
where you take your component and add it.
We can lazy hydrate it, we can do all
of the tricks that you can think of for
a component.
So, if you need a calendar widget,
you can do React.
Now, it will mean that you're including
that React in your app, right?
And it will mean that widget
will have to hydrate.
But maybe we can delay hydrate
it until it's visible or
until you mouse hover on it or
something like that.
So there are tricks you could do to
kind of improve the situation, but
there is a bridge between Qwik and React
so that you can take React components and
you can run them inside a Qwik.
>> Yeah, so, we've explored
the adapter for React to Qwik.
You also mentioned mitosis and what was
interesting about that is the idea that
you could start with something
agnostic and generate all the things.
Well, what does that look like?
And secondly, does it generate
Qwik code among the other things?
>> Yes, so
you're asking what does mitosis look like?
Okay, so, you can check it out yourself,
gonna mitosis that build a URL,
let me make the font a little bigger.
So, here is a component like a demo
component this is written in mitosis,
which is react ish like,
not quite the same thing,
but this is kind of like
the pseudo language so to speak.
And then this is the language can
be converted to, for example,
this is what the equivalent
would look like in view.
And notice if you look at the view,
there's nothing here that
says anything mitosis.
So this is a idiomatic view code, right?
And this is idiomatic React application.
This is an idiomatic Qwik application,
Qwik component and so on and so
forth, right?
And Angular, Svelte and
so on and so forth.
So, you can write your components,
like if you have a design system,
you can write it once in mitosis, and then
it will generate all the different source
codes for all the different frameworks.
So that it's native to that thing.
It's not a web component, it's wrapped,
it's native to that particular framework.
>> So then could you go react to mitosis?
>> And that's much more complicated.
The answer is not so simple.
The reason for that is that this here,
even though it looks like JavaScript is
actually declarative,
it's restricted thing.
Whereas in React,
you can do all kinds of things and
we wouldn't know how to parse it.
We wouldn't know what the semantic
meaning behind the thing that you did is.
So, there is a restricted state here now.
The JSX looks very much like React.
And this mitosis was inspired by React, so
it is very close to what
a React code would look like.
But we had somebody actually
wrote a Svelte front end.
So, the Svelte input again,
restricted Svelte would be written here,
it's called sveltoses.
And then the other outputs are over there.
So, you can think of this as the front
end input that's highly restricted.
You can do anything you want in here,
there's certain rules you have to follow.
But if you follow those rules,
then we will give you an output on
the other side which is in components.
And the restrictions of these rules is
basically what prevents us from just
taking anything and
be able to ingest it because we just
don't know what the meaning of that is.
We had this demo of the todos and
I wanted to explain reasonability.
So, I can click on this HTML and
if I go to console,
you know the trick that dollar zero gives
you basically the HTML element, right?
So, Qwik because it's a container,
dot I can pause this.
And what pausing will do is that if
you notice inside of the script tags,
if I hit Enter, it's not gonna show up.
So, there is a new script tag that
I inserted, this one right here.
This is the state of the system
that gets serialized in here.
What I can do here is I can go and
copy the outer HTML.
This is a source of truth.
And let's open up Safari.
And I don't know how to use Safari,
so bear with me here.
So, if I go to local host,
I need to have the same URL port.
So, let's just go to this home
page here that has no JavaScript.
And if I go here, and then can I edit?
And if I paste my app into it,
the app shows up, right?
That in itself is not impressive
because it's just HTML.
But the question is,
will the app be interactive and
will it remember its state?
Remember there was an item that I've
hidden, so it only shows active.
If I click all here, will something
happen and will the state be remembered?
So, if I click all, sorry.
When you paste HTML,
it doesn't execute the Qwik loader.
So, there's the Qwik loader right here.
So how do I do console?
I need to .content, text content?
Okay, so this piece of JavaScript, which
is the Qwik loader, has to get executed.
That's the boot up.
And now I can click on the O,
it's still not doing, what's going on?
Okay, well, this demo is not going as
well as it should have been going.
Let me try this.
Let me do the counter cuz that one
already has the Qwik loader loaded.
It's an if I go edit html and
Okay, paste it here.
Now it works and it shows up, right.
So now, you can see that the state of the
system like this profit was hidden, right,
it wasn't an HTML, and
it knew that it needed it and so
will serialize inside of code JSON.
So, this is what I mean by reasonability
is kinda like, the virtual machines.
You can at any time, freeze your
application, serialize everything and
the whole application is
fully contained in the HTML.
But not really the whole of it, right?
Because the JavaScript is
pointing to somewhere else.
That's why I had to make sure
that the URL was the same, so
you could download the JavaScript.
All of the other bits are in the HTML, and
this is what makes it so powerful, because
this is literally how the application
gets from the server to the client.
It runs on a server, we pause it,
we move it to the client and
we continue where we left off.